README.md, before:

shohisha
========

Provider-Consumer metadata and access control.

This ruby project creates a concept of providers which deliver some sort of
data. And consumers which are granted access to this data.

Resource structure
------------------

The following models are available
    providers
    consumers
    packages
    provider_types
    deliver_periods
    supplies
    fetchers
    transports
    ipaddresses
    retain_types
    fulltexts
    statuses

The 2 key resources are providers and consumers.

Providers have the following resources attached to it. This means that the
following resources have a provider_id in them.
    packages
    fetchers
    ipaddresses

Providers references the following structures
    provider_types

There is a link between consumer and provider, and between consumer
and packages.
This link contains a reference to a fulltext resource.

Fetchers contains a reference to the following resources:
    transports
    statuses
    retain_types
    deliver_periods

Fetchers are used to get information about how to get data from a provider.

Ipaddresses contain an IP address, IP address range or a IP address/bitmask.

Supplies is used to identify what kind of data the provider supplies.

Statutes is used to give the status for a given fetcher.


REST interface
--------------

Data can be extracted through a REST based interface.

For each resource available you can do the follwing requests
    GET /rest/<resource>.json
    GET /rest/<resource>/<id>.json

The returned format will be JSON.

The following special lookup exists.
    GET /rest/providercode/<code>(.json or .text)
.text will return the id only as plain/text.

The nested resources can be used to limit what is extracted.
    GET /rest/providers/<id>/consumers_providers.json
    GET /rest/consumers/<id>/consumers_providers.json
    GET /rest/providers/<id>/consumers_packages.json
    GET /rest/consumers/<id>/consumers_packages.json
    GET /rest/providers/<id>/fetchers.json

ipaddresses is intended for storing IP addresses which should be able to access
some kind of service related to this. E.g. an internal ftp server where data
is dropped of by providers.

consumers_providers and consumers_packages will return information about
links between consumer - provider and consumer - packages respectivily

How to use the REST interface
-----------------------------

To get a list of providers do:

    GET /rest/providers.json

This will return an array of providers in the JSON format.
This could look like this:
[
  {"code":"acm",
   "created_at":"2012-08-17T09:50:08Z",
   "description":"American Computer Manufactoring",
   "id":1,
   "provider_type_id":1,
   "updated_at":"2012-08-17T09:50:08Z"
  },
  {"code":"ebsco",
   "created_at":"2012-08-21T06:48:09Z",
   "description":"EBSCO",
   "id":2,
   "provider_type_id":1,
   "updated_at":"2012-08-21T06:48:09Z"
  },
  {"code":"alephcash",
   "created_at":"2012-09-11T11:57:12Z",
   "description":"Aleph Cash",
   "id":3,
   "provider_type_id":1,
   "updated_at":"2012-09-11T11:57:12Z"
  }
]

Any value in the returned information from a REST request which ends in 
"_id" is a mapping to another view.
You can find the reference name by removing "_id" and add "s" to the name.
If the name ends in a "s" you must add "es".

So in the returned provider data you can lookup the provider type by doing
  GET /rest/provider_types/<value>

If you find you need to do a lot of lookup on the type. You can also get the
full list of provider_types by doing
  GET /rest/provider_types
And then do the mapping yourself.

You can lookup a single provider by doing:
  GET /rest/providers/<id>.json

E.g.
  GET /rest/providers/1.json

could return:
{
  "code":"acm",
  "created_at":"2012-08-17T09:50:08Z",
  "description":"American Computer Manufactoring",
  "id":1,
  "provider_type_id":1,
  "updated_at":"2012-08-17T09:50:08Z"
}

For a single provider yuo can also get a list of attached consumers, packages
and fetchers.

E.g. to get all consumers for a given provider:
    GET /rest/providers/1/consumers.json

Which return an array of consumers linked to the given provider.
Like this:
[
  {"code":"dtu",
   "created_at":"2012-08-20T09:53:46Z",
   "description":"DTU employees and staff",
   "id":1,
   "updated_at":"2012-08-20T09:53:46Z"
  },
  {"code":"dtu_pub",
   "created_at":"2012-08-20T13:21:42Z",
   "description":"Public DTU",
   "id":2,
   "updated_at":"2012-08-20T13:21:42Z"
  }
]

Getting provider packages or consumer packages works the same way
    GET /rest/providers/2/packages.json

Which would return something like this:
[
  {"code":"ebsco_afh",
   "created_at":"2012-09-26T15:01:48Z",
   "description":"Ebsco AFH",
   "id":3,
   "provider_id":2,
   "updated_at":"2012-09-26T15:01:48Z"
  },
  {"code":"buh",
   "created_at":"2012-08-21T06:54:19Z",
   "description":"EBSCO Buh",
   "id":1,
   "provider_id":2,
   "updated_at":"2012-08-21T06:54:19Z"
  }
]

Or if no packages are available (needed) it will return [].

    GET /rest/consumers/1/packages.json

Would return all packages for all providers like this:
[
  {"code":"buh",
   "created_at":"2012-08-21T06:54:19Z",
   "description":"EBSCO Buh",
   "id":1,
   "provider_id":2,
   "updated_at":"2012-08-21T06:54:19Z"
  },
  {"code":"acm_package",
   "created_at":"2012-09-26T10:50:13Z",
   "description":"Acm Package",
   "id":2,
   "provider_id":1,
   "updated_at":"2012-09-26T10:50:13Z"
  }
]


To get the actual information about a link between consumer and provider
you use:
    GET /rest/consumers/1/consumers_providers.json

That will get all links from consumer 1 to a provider.
It looks like this:
[
  {"consumer_id":1,
   "created_at":"2012-08-20T14:55:52Z",
   "fulltext_id":1,
   "id":1,
   "provider_id":1,
   "updated_at":"2012-08-20T14:55:52Z"
  }
]

That same is possible for packages
    GET /rest/consumers/1/consumers_packages.json

Or from the provider perspective
    GET /rest/providers/1/consumers_providers.json
    GET /rest/providers/1/consumers_packages.json

To get all fetchers do
    GET /rest/fetchers.json

Or to get all fetchers for a given provider.
    GET /rest/providers/1/fetchers.json

Commit message:

Updated fetcher model with belongs to supply.

README.md, after:

shohisha
========

Provider-Consumer metadata and access control.

This ruby project creates a concept of providers which deliver some sort of
data. And consumers which are granted access to this data.

Resource structure
------------------

The following models are available
    providers
    consumers
    packages
    provider_types
    deliver_periods
    supplies
    fetchers
    transports
    ipaddresses
    retain_types
    fulltexts
    statuses

The 2 key resources are providers and consumers.

Providers have the following resources attached to it. This means that the
following resources have a provider_id in them.
    packages
    fetchers
    ipaddresses

Providers references the following structures
    provider_types

There is a link between consumer and provider, and between consumer
and packages.
This link contains a reference to a fulltext resource.

Fetchers contains a reference to the following resources:
    transports
    statuses
    retain_types
    deliver_periods

Fetchers are used to get information about how to get data from a provider.

Ipaddresses contain an IP address, IP address range or a IP address/bitmask.

Supplies is used to identify what kind of data the fetcher returns.

Statutes is used to give the status for a given fetcher.


REST interface
--------------

Data can be extracted through a REST based interface.

For each resource available you can do the follwing requests
    GET /rest/<resource>.json
    GET /rest/<resource>/<id>.json

The returned format will be JSON.
Any request not having .json added will return an empty response.

The following special lookup exists.
    GET /rest/providercode/<code>(.json or .text)
.text will return the id only as plain/text.

The nested resources can be used to limit what is extracted.
    GET /rest/providers/<id>/consumers_providers.json
    GET /rest/consumers/<id>/consumers_providers.json
    GET /rest/providers/<id>/consumers_packages.json
    GET /rest/consumers/<id>/consumers_packages.json
    GET /rest/providers/<id>/fetchers.json
    GET /rest/supplies/<id>/fetchers.json

ipaddresses is intended for storing IP addresses which should be able to access
some kind of service related to this. E.g. an internal ftp server where data
is dropped of by providers.

consumers_providers and consumers_packages will return information about
links between consumer - provider and consumer - packages respectivily

How to use the REST interface
-----------------------------

To get a list of providers do:

    GET /rest/providers.json

This will return an array of providers in the JSON format.
This could look like this:
[
  {"code":"acm",
   "created_at":"2012-08-17T09:50:08Z",
   "description":"American Computer Manufactoring",
   "id":1,
   "provider_type_id":1,
   "updated_at":"2012-08-17T09:50:08Z"
  },
  {"code":"ebsco",
   "created_at":"2012-08-21T06:48:09Z",
   "description":"EBSCO",
   "id":2,
   "provider_type_id":1,
   "updated_at":"2012-08-21T06:48:09Z"
  },
  {"code":"alephcash",
   "created_at":"2012-09-11T11:57:12Z",
   "description":"Aleph Cash",
   "id":3,
   "provider_type_id":1,
   "updated_at":"2012-09-11T11:57:12Z"
  }
]

Any value in the returned information from a REST request which ends in 
"_id" is a mapping to another view.
You can find the reference name by removing "_id" and add "s" to the name.
If the name ends in a "s" you must add "es".

So in the returned provider data you can lookup the provider type by doing
  GET /rest/provider_types/<value>

If you find you need to do a lot of lookup on the type. You can also get the
full list of provider_types by doing
  GET /rest/provider_types
And then do the mapping yourself.

You can lookup a single provider by doing:
  GET /rest/providers/<id>.json

E.g.
  GET /rest/providers/1.json

could return:
{
  "code":"acm",
  "created_at":"2012-08-17T09:50:08Z",
  "description":"American Computer Manufactoring",
  "id":1,
  "provider_type_id":1,
  "updated_at":"2012-08-17T09:50:08Z"
}

For a single provider yuo can also get a list of attached consumers, packages
and fetchers.

E.g. to get all consumers for a given provider:
    GET /rest/providers/1/consumers.json

Which return an array of consumers linked to the given provider.
Like this:
[
  {"code":"dtu",
   "created_at":"2012-08-20T09:53:46Z",
   "description":"DTU employees and staff",
   "id":1,
   "updated_at":"2012-08-20T09:53:46Z"
  },
  {"code":"dtu_pub",
   "created_at":"2012-08-20T13:21:42Z",
   "description":"Public DTU",
   "id":2,
   "updated_at":"2012-08-20T13:21:42Z"
  }
]

Getting provider packages or consumer packages works the same way
    GET /rest/providers/2/packages.json

Which would return something like this:
[
  {"code":"ebsco_afh",
   "created_at":"2012-09-26T15:01:48Z",
   "description":"Ebsco AFH",
   "id":3,
   "provider_id":2,
   "updated_at":"2012-09-26T15:01:48Z"
  },
  {"code":"buh",
   "created_at":"2012-08-21T06:54:19Z",
   "description":"EBSCO Buh",
   "id":1,
   "provider_id":2,
   "updated_at":"2012-08-21T06:54:19Z"
  }
]

Or if no packages are available (needed) it will return [].

    GET /rest/consumers/1/packages.json

Would return all packages for all providers like this:
[
  {"code":"buh",
   "created_at":"2012-08-21T06:54:19Z",
   "description":"EBSCO Buh",
   "id":1,
   "provider_id":2,
   "updated_at":"2012-08-21T06:54:19Z"
  },
  {"code":"acm_package",
   "created_at":"2012-09-26T10:50:13Z",
   "description":"Acm Package",
   "id":2,
   "provider_id":1,
   "updated_at":"2012-09-26T10:50:13Z"
  }
]


To get the actual information about a link between consumer and provider
you use:
    GET /rest/consumers/1/consumers_providers.json

That will get all links from consumer 1 to a provider.
It looks like this:
[
  {"consumer_id":1,
   "created_at":"2012-08-20T14:55:52Z",
   "fulltext_id":1,
   "id":1,
   "provider_id":1,
   "updated_at":"2012-08-20T14:55:52Z"
  }
]

That same is possible for packages
    GET /rest/consumers/1/consumers_packages.json

Or from the provider perspective
    GET /rest/providers/1/consumers_providers.json
    GET /rest/providers/1/consumers_packages.json

To get all fetchers do
    GET /rest/fetchers.json

Or to get all fetchers for a given provider.
    GET /rest/providers/1/fetchers.json
